.\" this is the manpage of the pamix pulseaudio ncurses mixer
.TH pamix 1 "27 Nov 2024" "V" "pamix man page"

.SH DESCRIPTION
PAmix is a pavucontrol inspired ncurses based pulseaudio mixer

.SH CONFIGURATION
pamix is configured using a file called pamix.conf inside the $XDG_CONFIG_HOME or $HOME/.config, should it not be set.
.br
.start
.SH COMMANDS
.PP
PAmix conf files support the following commands:
.br
* bind

.SH bind
.PP
\fBSYNOPSIS:\fP bind KEYNAME MIXER\-COMMAND [ARGUMENT]

.PP
bind is used to bind a keyname to a mixer\-command.
.br
Some mixer\-commands require an argument.
.br
You can bind a keyname to multiple mixer\-commands.

.SH PAMIX\-COMMANDS
.PP
Pamix\-Commands can be bound to keys using the bind command and are used to interact with pamix.
.br
The following pamix\-commands are currently supported:

.SH quit
.PP
quit will cause PAmix to exit and takes no arguments.

.SH select\-tab
.PP
select\-tab will select one of the following tabs: Output Devices, Input Devices, Playback, Recording, Cards
.br
select\-tab takes the number of the tab to switch to starting at 0 in the order mentioned.

.SH select\-next and select\-prev
.PP
these commands are given the optional argument 'channel' they will select the next and previous channels.
if no argument is given they will select the next and previous entry in the displayed tab.

.SH set\-volume
.PP
this command takes the targetvalue in form of a double as an argument.
.br
depending on whether channels are locked, this command will set the volume of the selected entry/channel to the targetvalue given in the argument.
.br
\fIExample:\fP bind 0 set\-volume 1.0 \fI; this will set the volume to 100%\fP

.SH add\-volume
.PP
this command takes a deltavalue in form of a double as an argument.
.br
the deltavalue can be negative
\fIExample:\fP bind h add\-volume \-0.05 \fI; this will reduce the volume by 5%\fP

.SH cycle\-next and cycle\-prev
.PP
these commands will change the device or port of the currently selected entry.
.br
they dont take any arguments.

.SH toggle\-lock
.PP
this command toggles whether channels should be locked together for the currently selected entry
.br
and takes no arguments.

.SH toggle\-mute
.PP
toggles whether the currently selected entry is muted
.br
and takes no arguments.

.stop

.SH DEFAULT CONFIGURATION

Keybindings:
.br
F1      show Playback tab
.br
F2      show Recording tab
.br
F3      show Output devices tab
.br
F4      show Input devices tab
.br
F5      show Cards tab
.br
0-9     set volume to percentage (10%-100%)
.br
j/down  select next channel or entry
.br
k/up    select previous channel or entry
.br
h/left  decrease volume
.br
l/right increase volume
.br
c       un/lock channels
.br
s/S     select next/previous device/port

